rogue system  - feature list

    Dynamically-generated galaxy each time a new "game" is created.
    Real-time motion for galactic objects (some planets literally take hundreds of years to orbit their star).
    Support for anomalies such as comets, asteroid belts, Kuiper Belts, and more.
    Multiple star classes from dwarf to super nova.
    Multiple planet classes from rock to gas giant.
    Planets/moons are dynamically textured based on type for endless variety.
    Planet/moon atmospheres change based on current conditions.
    Celestial gravitational forces.
    Time Acceleration when traversing great distances via SAN (Suspended ANimation). Turns trips lasting weeks (real-time) into seconds.
    Fully programmable keyboard, mouse and multiple joystick devices.
    Fully interactive/click-able cockpit controls.
    Various forms of cockpit displays and instrumentation, as well as helmet displays.
    6 DOF TrackIR support.
    Ability to walk around in first-person mode inside any ship that is large enough (as long as the interior art exists) using FPS style controls.
    Newtonian flight model with ship systems to provide a more atmospheric feel when needed.
    Thruster-based maneuvering.
    Various drive systems for intra- and inter-system travel as well as local travel.
    Functional ships are created by mounting various systems into the hull.
    Movable exterior and interior ship parts.
    Various exterior and interior lighting (formation lights, flood lights, instrument lights, etc).
    "Tail number" and squadron markings as well as user-defined nose art.
    Ship systems have dependencies on other systems.
    Armor and deflector systems to defend against damage from energy weapons, as well as blast and impact forces.
    Ship systems can receive different types and amounts internal damage which adversely affect operation in various ways.
    Systems can suffer non-combat related damage.
    Larger ships have external attachment points to accept a variety of equipment such as turreted weapons, solar arrays, etc).
    Player has full control of the ship from pre-flight to post-flight.
    STC (Space-Traffic Control) communications for each ship that has docking collars or hangar bays.
    Ship to ship communication with other characters.
    Characters have "relationships" with other characters, factions and the player, which vary over time.
    Characters have mental and physical attributes that are always being updated, altering their decision making, determination, and combat effectiveness.
    AI employ various flight maneuvers based on the current situation.
    AI fly their ship by feeding flight input into it just as the player has to do.
    AI and player both have to contend with "background clutter" of varying types (based on things such as star class and local anomalies) when attempting to target other ships.
    Player's pilot "avatar" reacts to conditions inside the cockpit.
    Campaign and scripted-mission structure and control.
    Full particle system for internal/external effects.
    Separate internal and external sound system. External sound is modified by the "level of vacuum" as well as user-defined range setting (at 0 range you'd get a realistic exterior audio experience, while at higher ranges it would become more movie-like).
