Tropical Games announces Void of Darkness, a space combat/trading/exploration game coming to Windows, OS X, and Linux in September of this year.

 

copy/paste from their website:
  

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

In Void of Darkness, the player takes control of a Starship as part of a new Terran exploration fleet. You control the ship and all of its systems directly with WASD + mouse controls, but are greatly aided by your crew whom you will recruit at the beginning of the game. You start out with a basic ship and technology. Your goal will then be to explore the sector, interact with the alien nations present, upgrade your ship, all while moving through elements of the non-linear plot to the game. 

 

 

 

Below are summaries of each of the main features of the game, although they are not an exhaustive list of all the features.

 

Tactical Combat & Graphics 
bYYO6q0.jpg

Engaging Combat

 

Manage your Starship's Systems

Allocate Power between weapons, shields, sensors and engines

Direct your crew's focus to prioritize repairs on specific systems

Obtain various classes of Starship from Corvettes to Dreadnoughts

Obtain Powerful Weapons, from highly efficient point defense, to powerful area of effect weapons and cloaking devices

Devise strategies to deal with unorthodox enemies

Engage in Fleet Combat

Beautiful particle FX for all effects in the game, shields, lasers, torpedoes and explosions

Upgrade your ship and become powerful enough to take on multiple foes at one time

 

 

Exploration & Trade

Y5wed4W.jpg

Explore

 

A huge universe to explore

More than 10 alien races to make contact and directly interact with

Dangerous anomalies: Wormholes and Fluxes which lead to unknown and dangerous places

Discover artifacts and powerful technology hidden throughout the universe

Hybrid Rogue-Like: You can only save once docked at a station. Journey's are long, real and dangerous especially if you are carrying precious cargo, or have become attached to your crew

Trade

Find profitable Trade routes between the alien nations

Haggle/Barter with merchants for the highest possible price for  goods you wish to sell or whittle them down to the lowest price for goods you wish to purchase

Salvage derelict ships or hulks from combat

Tow disabled ships to space stations for a fee

The universe is ever evolving and relations are changing. Alien nations can have disputes or all out war. This will result in fleet combat and they will attack their enemies assets such as space stations. Choose to aid one side or the other, or just watch from the sidelines.

 

Pirates and other particularly hostile aliens roam the stars and will engage you and hold your ship and crew for ransom. Pay the ransom or fight your way out if you can.

 

Found yourself in a situation you cannot handle Send and receive distress calls to and from alien allies.

 

 

 

Simulation 
Ty4BQWh.jpg

Simulation

 

Manage your crew, they eat, they sleep and consume supplies. They provide various bonuses to your ship and they can die!

Damage Control: Sustain hull breaches and watch your oxygen deplete and your crew eventually suffocate.

Manage Auxiliary Craft such as shuttles and mining drones

Interact with your crew. Your crew AI is intelligent they will interact with you, keep you up to date on events in the universe, repair your ship, warn of danger, highlight areas of interest and update you on the status of your ship, such as fuel and other supplies.

 

 

 

Dynamic Event System 
UzlpAJN.jpg

 


The universe is ever evolving and relations are changing. Alien nations can have disputes or all out war. This will result in fleet combat and they will attack their enemies assets such as space stations. Choose to aid one side or the other, or just watch from the sidelines.

Pirates and other particularly hostile aliens roam the stars and will engage you and hold your ship and crew for ransom. Pay the ransom or fight your way out if you can.

Found yourself in a situation you cannot handle? Send and receive distress calls to and from alien allies.

 

 