ABOUT ME

I'm Justin Sampson, the developer behind Void of Darkness. I've played just about every space game over the years. Everything from Elite to Independence War, to Wing Commander and Freespace and everything in between.

WHY I BEGAN THIS PROJECT

Starflight 1 & 2 by Binary Systems are some of my fondest memories of gaming. Since then, although other space games have been excellent in their own right, none have captured the feel of that 'little ship exploring a big universe' like Starflight did. A fan-made attempt at Starflight 3 has not materialized, and as I do not have the rights to create an official Starflight sequel, the next best thing I can do is create a project inspired by it. Hence Void of Darkness began.

If successful, VoD might be as close to a sequel to Starflight 2 that its fans could get. But this project is not only about Starflight fans, Void of Darkness will be a space game which any fan of space games can enjoy.

FEATURES
Void of Darkness is a sandbox game
with a non-linear storyline.
Starship combat

Featuring powerful weapons to outfit your Starship, including unique area-of-effect weapons and cloaking devices.
True Exploration

Your starship, your crew, exploring a dangerous universe. Void of Darkness is packed with wormholes and other phenomena in space, and valuable alien artifacts to discover on various planets.
Alien Interaction

Interact with 10 Alien Empires, each of whom has a unique personality and agenda.
Crew Management

Recruit and manage your crew. Your crew will assist you throughout the game by carrying out repairs on your ship. They will keep you informed of the status of your ship with regard to fuel and other supplies. Your crew will also keep you abreast of other events as they occur around you or throughout the universe.
Acquire & Upgrade

Obtain new technology and upgrade your ship’s core systems such as your engines, sensors, shields, armor and weapons.
Fast Travel

Space is vast. You will be able to obtain technology through exploration such as the jump drive, in addition to your faster-than-light drive.
Manage Auxiliary Craft

You can deploy mining drones to planets to collect ore to sell for profit.
Trading

Haggle/Barter with alien species for the best price in a similar way to how it was done in Starflight. Take notes on the prices of various items at space stations and exploit lucrative trade routes throughout the sector.
Battle with Pirate factions

Pirates have their own bases of operation and will attempt to hold you and your crew for ransom if they encounter you, in addition to attacking transport ships plying trade routes.
Pick Your Targets

Engage in fleet-vs-fleet combat or lead a fleet to assault and destroy star bases. Alien factions when at war will attack each others assets, and these assets will be rebuilt over time.
Sandbox play and Dynamic Events

The alien nations in the game will sometimes have disputes or all-out war with each other, which you are free to simply observe or pick a side.

Non-linear story line which you are free to take part in or not!

HOW THE GAME IS PLAYED

At the beginning of the game, the player will be given command of a basic Starship. From there you will recruit your crew. You directly control your ship through intuitive keyboard and mouse controls. The combat in VoD is real-time and is modelled after capital ship combat and not fighters dogfighting. Engagements can last for some time depending on various factors.

You will receive a general mission briefing which will serve as a general guide for you on your journey. After that, you are free to set your own goals, go where you wish and do what you want. You might decide to secure friendships with other species, explore the sector and acquire advanced technology. In any order.

There are no loading screens in Void of Darkness. You can fly seamlessly from one end of the game's universe to the other. There are no jump gates and/or other limitations to travel. To avoid monotony the player will be able to acquire a jump drive, but this will be balanced to the point where you cannot instantly get wherever you want to be at any time.
WHAT THE FUNDS ARE FOR

This campaign is to specifically fund art, special FX, and UI. Those fundamental elements that combine for great immersion.

There are at present eleven alien races in the game. They need art content such as: portraits, their various ships, planets. We need space stations, space monsters, and other special FX. And the UI will be created too, making VoD look the very best it can.

All other aspects of production are being funded internally.

Backers of this project will have access to rewards which include: early access to Alpha and Beta releases, printed manuals & starmaps, access to internal development discussion, and of course digital and/or boxed copies of the final game for yourself and others to gift to friends.

By obtaining early alpha builds, you will be in a unique position to shape and be directly involved in crafting a game that you would want to play.
WHY I NEED YOUR HELP

Your contribution will directly affect the impact this project has upon release. Although graphics are not everything, it is the immersion factor that we are going for, and Void of Darkness will have a particular style to aid in your immersion into the universe of the game.

Backing at the tier where you receive the Alpha or Beta releases also means that you have purchased the final game. You will not have to buy the finished product once it is released.

As well as owning Void of Darkness for a discounted price, this campaign presents you with the opportunity to provide us with valuable feedback to craft a game you want to play. I welcome all and any feedback or ideas you have. Our community will be part of the team.

HELP SPREAD THE WORD

Even if you are unable to back this project, I would still absolutely love your input and suggestions on the forums for the game. You could also help me by spreading word about this campaign to your friends on social media. Everything and everyone counts.

If for some reason you wished to invest in the project beyond the amounts available, please contact me directly.